Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman that's
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 43. In this
episode, Scott talks with IIE
about the sass CSS preprocessor.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm here
at Len comp in North Carolina,
and I'm talking with Claudina
and I get that
right. Thank you so much.
And you gave a workshop
at this conference on SAS
for hours. You talked about
sex Three. You can give
me that extra credit. Okay.
Absolutely. That extra freedom. You
could even probably spend a
week talking about it. I
could, yeah, I could. I
could spend a week. It's
been a day, at least
for the workshop. You definitely
need a lot of time.
It's too much too much
to get into. Yeah, it
seems like there. And I
think that people who are
programmers like to say that
there's two kinds of people
in the world, in whatever
situation, I feel like there's
people who write CSS and
there's people who really architected
that people craft it and
who care about it. Why
is there that dichotomy between
the people that you just
bang out, sip cm, CSS
versus people who make well
modularized, thoughtful, large scale CSS?
Well, I think we're actually
at the time where we
can actually architect CSS and
this is what preprocessor is,
have allowed us to do.
And prior to that, it
was difficult. It wasn't impossible.
And Nicole Sullivan came out with,
Oh, CSS as a convention
for starting to do this
with, with what we had,
which was class names in
a CSS file, but CSS
is a very flat language.
So what can you do
with that? You know, like
you need more dynamic tools.
So these P processors have
really opened the door for
it, but we're dealing with
this sort of baggage of
development where we weren't really
thinking like architects or weren't
really designing our systems. So
that's the new hurdle to
get around on top of
now having to learn this
new language. So those are
the challenges When I've created
CSS and I'm not a
designer, but I can, you
know, I can hack my
way around a decent site
and I've done CSS on
all of my, my sites.
They I've either done it.
Two ways started from a
page or like a reset
CSS and then gone from
there and done my best
to build something. And then
I got it to a
point where it was nice
and then a week or
two goes by and I
need to make a change.
And inevitably that changed and
sticking out the bottom. And
then it's a line at
the bottom. So fast forward
four years, I think there's
more at the bottom than
there ever was before, but
I'm afraid to touch it
the bottom of your, you
know, like the entire file.
I'm just like, it works
right. It cascades. And, you
know, I could rearrange the
thing and it might just
stop working because something might
override something else and you're
just going to leave it
be, and it's all in
like, you know, site dot
CSS, save me. What did
I do? Where did I
go wrong? Well, I read
What I'm saying is that,
do I start with like
a master dot CSS? And
then just get to a
point where I like, I
need to start breaking this
up into pieces, The process
for sort of coming into
antecessor rearchitect rearchitecting a file.
Yeah. I think like if
I'm starting in a Greenfield
development or I'm writing it
from scratch, right? Cause most
CSS people have, I have
talked to say that if
it gets into a rat's
nest, just really don't try
to rearchitect it, know how
to refactor it. Just think,
think of it as a
reference, get rid of it
and start from scratch and
then write it and you'll
find it it'll be smaller.
It's almost like if you
lose a term paper, you
can mourn the paper. You
can try to recover the
paper. But frankly, if you
just write it again, the
second time it's going to
be better. Yeah. You know,
I actually have had a
lot of discussions with sort
of this idea of refactoring
with the Gina Bolton and
Elise holiday. And, and the
truth is that not everyone
can throw away their giant
crazy sites dot CSS files.
We had a woman yesterday
in the workshop who was
like, this is great. You
know, we have this giant
file and I have to
figure out how to like
port our CSS to SAS.
And so one of the
things I started out with,
which I think is really
important and this sort of,
one of the areas where
we can get the most
gain is how you organize
your file directory with SAS,
because it is new. We
no longer have this monolithic
site dot CSS or screen
or Maine. We now have
these tiny little partials where
we can put things into,
but again, what do you
put into it and what
goes in there? So I
spent some time definitely talking
about that. And I think,
I mean, my approach when
you're dealing with refactoring would
be follow this sort of
organization, which I modified from
Dale, Sandy, who's done a
really good job thinking about
ways to what he calls,
avoid your SAS junk drawer.
And then through my work
at odd bird and our
little experiments, we've modified this
and Is this something we
can get to? Is this
on get hub? Yeah, it's
in my, do you have
links to it? Awesome. Awesome.
I will give you a
link, a link to it,
but yeah, I would start
out by really like the
thing about SAS is you
have this, this directory, which
is like your base, which
is finally sort of setting
up your variables and the
things that you need, like
setting up your tools that
you need to build all
your other components. And so
a refactoring adventure for me
might be looking at that
monolithic CSS thing and being
like, okay, these are sort
of grouped together. And these
form, like my author section,
and then I would yank
that out into its own
partial and keep doing that
until I've got sort of
an idea of what the
separate components are. And then
from there you can continue
down your refactoring adventure to
make it more and more
sassy. So, okay. So then
I could take, like, these
are all colors that are
associated with this brand and
then those would be like
a colors. Yup. And then
I would move that into
like colors dot config file.
And I would say these
are all my colors and
they're here and these are
all my font stuff in
there here. And we have,
we do some stuff with
sizing to try to keep
those pretty consistent so that
you're not Okay. So that's
interesting. So you're saying like
the size of like a
button and you want it
to be the same everywhere.
Yeah. We actually have little
helpers for sizing that we
use for like even margin
or padding. And they're very
simple. We have three names.
Shim is the tiniest and
then we have gutter and
column and it's just, you
start to think that way
you're like, then this space
I want small and in
this one I want a
little larger. Okay. So you're
saying to keep, I can
understand like the obvious stuff,
like, okay. You know, consolidate
my colors, but consolidating my,
my white space almost into
its own a partial
okay. Sizing tool. Yeah. Sizing
tool. Let's let me back
up a little bit for
some of the people who
are more kind of SAS
one-on-one type people. It's a
it's, it's a preprocessor. So
it effectively elevate CSS to
a, kind of a full
programming language that compiles into
a target, which where that
target is CSS and as
such, I can plug different
things into it. Yeah. It
actually, I think one of
the coolest things that's happened
with the recent advance in
SaaS is we have SAS
maps and maps are a
hash or array, very common
to any other programming language.
Some brilliant people in SaaS
have written extensions that allow
you to actually take your
sass map and convert it
to Jason, which is crazy,
which now means that you
can convert CSS to Jason,
which is an interchangeable data
format that allows you to
now communicate with any language.
And I'm not sure how
I'm supposed to feel about
that. That's pretty, mind-bending, It's
pretty awesome. It's really great
for style guides, actually, this
for making maintainable style guides
in the sense that one
of the things that front
end people bemoan is like,
Oh, I've added a new
color. And now I have
to go to my style
guide and like copy and
paste this thing. And I'm
like, Nope, I just add
a new color to my
map. It exports to Jason.
And then in my template,
I loop through my Jace
on file. I see. Okay.
So all of the, all
of the sizes and the
colors become data, they're just
data trapped in SAS. You
compile that to Jason and
then just like any other
template you bought it. I
use a lot of that.
Mostly for like style guides
stuff. That's really the only
Thing like documentation effect. Yeah.
Yeah. But I think to
me, that's one of the
most powerful things when you're
like, wow, this gets to
talk to any language. Now,
when did we have that
with CSS? We never had
that. So that's a whole
new Well, and it makes
you us as kind of
addressable, like, you know, HTML
is addressable. I can access
the Dom. JavaScript is the
thing that we address it
with. And then CSS was
kind of like bolted onto
the side. It was just
this thing that was along
for the ride. And we
couldn't. But the thing that
makes beauty on the web,
it's like a very important
language. It's the reason that
things look nice and that
we can actually use things.
I mean, it's not just,
and it's terrible and flat
on its own, but not
anymore. And when I talked
to one of the people
who worked on SAS kind
of early on, what was
the gentleman's name? Hampton, Hampton,
he was saying that he
didn't understand why it wasn't
such an obvious thing for
the CSS people to just
do like, just add some
hierarchy and that's a good
start. Like why did we
not do that? Why was
CSS so flat? And the
problem that, that caused, I
don't know enough about the
history of CSS too. I
guess it's more of a,
it SAS happened because there
was an idea of vacuum.
There was something that was
like, there was a pain.
Yeah. But it actually took
a really long time for
it to get adopted. It
took like seven years before
this thing is now really?
Yeah. It was just floating
out there that many years
ago. It took a while.
It really took a while
before people were into it.
And there's actually, I mean,
so called the, like, like
some of the bigger names
in front end for a
while were just like, I
don't know why you would
even want to use this
thing called a preprocessor and
this is bad and it's,
and you can't do it.
And it's just like, well,
what actually I think forced
people around it was this
whole, these device constraints. And
it became impossible to deal
with so many devices with
a flat language. There's just,
I mean, we were designers,
which at our heart means
that we're architects and we're
looking for patterns and we're
pulling these things together and
trying to figure out how
these systems work. And we,
we need languages that let
us do that. And so
I think people finally realized
and came to, Seems like
there was a sense of
not wanting to repeat ourselves,
right. This idea of being
dry. And it reached a
pain where it's like, okay,
fine. This is just ridiculous.
I have repeated myself with
this color or these margins.
So many times now we
need variables. Where is that
tool?  yeah. The variables
are definitely sort of the
first thing that would sell
everyone. He'd be like, look,
he no longer have to
write this color over and
over and over again. I'm
just the gateway drug though.
Absolutely. Absolutely. Ooh. Red, look
at it, go one variable.
Well, what are, what are
mixings Makes sense are ways
of sharing like blocks of
code, but the difference is
that they take arguments. So
you can manipulate like the
data. So you can create
this reusable property block. But
let's say for example, yesterday,
my workshop, I use the
notifications as an example where
you have the general structure
of a notification that can
be shared, but then you
might have three different types
of a notification. You might
have like a pop up,
like an alert, a warning,
and you might different colors.
So we can create a
mixing to share sort of
the color styles and manipulations.
And we pass in one
argument which would be color,
and then it can generate
all the rest of the,
See that just clicked in
my head. That is a
really great analogy because you're
going to want the buttons
to be the same. You're
going to want the thing
to lay out the same.
Maybe you'll have a box
shadow. It's going to be
spaced. It's going to be
90% the same for these
different classes of, of error
messages, but you want the
flexibility to change something fundamentally.
So this one is pretty
neat in the sense that
you pass one color, which
is the background color. And
then because SaaS has crazy
color functions, I can use
SAS color functions to take
a one color and then
derive a text color, and
a border color and a
nice drop shadow color. And
I can even be smart
enough to say, okay, SAS,
if my background is dark,
I want you to manipulate
this color. So we make
a lighter text color. If
I have a light background
color, I know I need
to do a different manipulation
because my text color needs
to be dark. Like he
could not do that with
you. Interesting. Okay. So let's,
let's dig into that for
a little bit. So in
the past, it's mostly go
to Photoshop, use the little
I call it the legend
of Zelda sword, because it
looks like the eye drop
pick that looks like a
little Mister you're going into,
and then you basically just
start memorizing the hex hoppy
pasting it, right. So much.
I actually have an open
Photoshop in such a long
time. My life is better.
That's good. So you're saying
that I can just say
my base is sky blue
and then say, you know,
two Hughes steps down or
two saturations in this direction.
Yeah. You can actually work
with HSL, which is really
great. So as a designer,
it's it thinks the way
a designer thinks cause you,
I assume you guys think
in terms of, you said
HSL, can you explain what
he does? Saturation lightness, just
preface that I'm not a
designer, but HSL makes sense
to me in my brain
because it's easier to work
with. So the idea is
that Hugh is a zero
to three 60, so color
exists on a color wheel.
So red is zero and
three 60, and then you're
moving around from there. Purple
I think is maybe like
200 ish. So you start
to memorize where things go,
saturation is how much gray,
you're adding to something more
or less gray. And then
lightness is how light or
dark that color is. So
you can really easily create
these manipulations. And for someone
like for me, especially, I'm
like, well, this makes, this
makes sense. I can critique
one color and do some
light little modifications and create
an actually like pretty decent
looking design. Well, and it's
a much more, it seems
to me that he's a
much more disciplined and much
more focused way to solve
a problem in the sense
of I as a non
designer. And in, in this
interaction, I'm going to call
you, even though you're not
a designer, you're a hell
of a lot more of
a designer than I am.
I'm gonna look at a
blue and I'm going to
that blue next to it
kind of looks okay and
I'm going to eyeball it.
But someone else is going
to say, this is our
base blue. This is our
base green. I want 20%
more saturation. Yep. It doesn't
really, I don't really care
what the resulting hex value
is. I just know that
I want to be very
focused about it and add
that to my style guide.
And then I'm going to
get consistent. And I assume
I could get my site.
Could I get my sass
down to like a very
small number of base colors
and calculate everything else I
actually try to strive for
that is really just reducing
sort of the number of
variables that you have and
then using these functions for
manipulation to create the other
things that you need. So
you're not creating like before
I think people would do
like a background color, then
a text color and a
dropdown text, shadow color, and
a border color. And that's
fine, but that's still very,
I mean, that's also not
very dry. So even though
I think it's one of
the things I also stress
when I'm teaching is like
SAS still compiles down to
CSS. So we do need
to be aware of that.
And then there are ways
within our SAS code when
we're architecting it, that we
can also be dry, more
dry and less wet. And
so I think colors is
a great example where you
can try to derive the
rest of it from one
that's much better than setting
like a giant colors variable
file. Could I write my
SAS poorly that I might
end up with CSS? That
is way more complicated than
like, do I, is it
one of those things? I
just ignore that there's this
generated file and pretend it
doesn't exist. You should always
be looking at your, at
your generated file, always, especially
when you're learning. Cause it's,
it's also important to see
that's how you begin to
understand like exactly what it's
doing. Cause most people are
like, it's magic. It's like,
no, it's still compiles down
to something that browser understands.
So you need to make
sure that that's okay. So
I think it's the best
way to always keep them
safe. So if something's wrong,
do I, is it to
me that I'm doing SAS
wrong or do I need
to give it hints? Or
there are ways to say
sort of in what sense,
like, I don't know, let's
say that I do something
in the end, it kind
of explodes into this kind
of Cartesian product of colors.
And it's like, wow, this
is way more information than
that, that selector needed. Like
this, this property block is
more expressive because I had
a mixed in with a
mix center, whatever. And it
just kind of like, you
know what I mean? Can
I do anything with the
generated file or is it
all has to flow from
SAS to system? It has
to flow from South to
CSS. Yeah. The generated file
is more like, Oh, Whoa,
whoops. I might be nesting
this thing and correctly, or
I may have extended a
property without realizing that it's
within another. And it just
created a nightmare. I understand
that. Is it true that
I can write some JavaScript
and evaluate JavaScript evaluations within
SAS and then that can
expand out. I can basically
have JavaScript expressions like gifts
and stuff Like the control
directions, like if each in
mice. So what would I
use that for Control directives?
Well, for example, when I,
when we were talking about
color and being able to
test, you're going to use,
that's a control directive right
there. So yeah, if you're
basically saying, if the lightness
of this color is greater
than 50%, then perform this
action, I'll do something else.
So you, you can use
if an L statements are
really, really powerful. I see.
So if, if a color
got to light, I could,
you know, I could block
it from getting any lighter
or I could, Or you
can even tell, like it's
a great way for designing
mix sense for being like,
well, if I've defined this
argument or have set this,
then I need you to
print out these other CSS
properties. Otherwise don't, we don't
actually need them. So it's
very, they're really, really, really
powerful. And each is the
other one that I think
is really well, like used
a lot. And especially with
maps and especially used to
generate like actually generate CSS
for you, which is incredible.
One of the things that
I think is worth pointing
out and I think the
listeners will agree is that
for a lot of us
who work on large systems
inside of enterprises and we
haven't built kind of a
modern, I'm saying that in
air quotes, a modern app,
a modular app with a
client side build process in
a while we have some
JavaScript, we put in a
file and then we ship
that JavaScript. We have some
CSS, we put in a
file on the ship that,
but the new way of
doing things is not just
a service side build for
applications that compile on the
server, but also a client
side build process. This, you,
it sounds like you could
have really sophisticated, complex CSS
that is truly architected. That
can be managed by many,
many people. And they're going
to, you're going to have
not just one designer working
on one file, but a
whole team sharing these different
visual languages, sharing these mix
ENS, and that's all part
of a build process. And
is that the kind of
the, do you find yourself
working on those projects or
these are the CSS is
that you can, that one
person can understand. Cause I
feel like it's getting complicated
enough that I'm going to
not be able to fit
it all in my, in
my head on one project,
Do I find myself working
on teams Where I wasn't,
I'm trying to say that
suddenly I went from being
one file to being a
whole series of functions that
I've got colors and it
got mixed since I've got
libraries and I just didn't
expect CSS to go in
that direction. And is this
something that works better when
I have teams? Like if
you have, if you're working
with three other people who
are managing your front end
CSS work, do you each
work in the same file?
Do you use, do you
break it up so that
you can be working in
separate parts of the SAS?
And can you get into
situations where someone makes a
change and then it breaks
the entire style sheet because
they made one variable change.
It's so dry now cascades
more than ever. The good
thing is that if it's
a change that the compiler
doesn't like, it won't actually
let it happen, which is
nice. You can't like compile
things because, Because it's basically
linting it, you know, it
is compiled. And if it's
not The valid, yeah, it
has to be valid for
CSS in terms of working
with teams, I work with,
there's only one other front
end developer on my team.
So it makes it a
lot easier. And we have
a very, very big focus
about building tools. And so
we're very, very aware of
like, Oh, okay, we are
reusing this snippet of code
or this idea a lot.
How can we make something
better? So we have a
big focus on making better
tools internally. I definitely think
of course, there's going to
be more complexity when you're
dealing with multiple people on
a team and the added
complexities of just am I
putting my code in the
right partial, which partial should
this go into? Where should
it go? You know, like
what's going to happen. And
I think all of that,
again comes down to the
beginning and the setup and
like, how are you designing
and architecting your project? And
we don't, I just feel
that we like, at least
in front end, we don't
really, we don't have the
mindset. We haven't wrapped our
head around this completely. Like
we are architects, this is
not okay. The designers now
given us the PSD and
we should just like, go
start, like taking it apart.
You need to sit down
and look at it and
be like, okay, what are
these actual components? What things
do we have here? And
if you really sort of
forward thinking, you're going to
start to build your own
little framework and sort of
pattern library so that you
can get through things faster
and help you out and
conventions that work for you
and your team. And so
I think that can be
the hard thing, especially cause
it's so new now that
everyone's like, well, what's the
best way. What's the best
thing. And it's like, you
know what? The best way
for me is not the
best way for you because
my team and my requirements
are different and you need
to analyze it from what
are your goals and your
objectives and what do you
have at your disposal. So
You're expressed that so much
better. I apologize for my
muddled question. I think what
you, you express it so
much better than I did.
I think what I was
trying to get my head
around was this idea that
the intentionality of it suddenly
changed. And like you just
expressed it so well. And
you said that your team,
your team member, and you
are making a set of
tools and those tools are
these property blocks. And these
makes sense. And these colors
and these colors and these
color functions, where, what is
it exactly we're trying to
accomplish? How are we going
to architect that solution to
solve this problem for the
business? And we're going to
build a reusable set of
tools and we, you and
that other designer, or if
you had more designers are
all on the same team.
And these are the things
we value. It's that intentionality.
Yeah. The communication and talking
and all these. I mean,
those, those things are hard
already on their own. And
then when you add this
new language that can create
more complexities where you're like,
well, I stuck it in
that partial and I put
it there and I imported
it there. And it's like,
ah, you know, you gotta
have some sort of rules
around it. And I think
that at least if you're
on a team, if you're
just like, what's going on
with my CSS, why is
this a disorder? And then
maybe you should look at
like, how are we interacting
as a team? And, and
that, that speaks to the,
if it, to call back
to the beginning of the
conversation, if they just like,
stick it at the bottom,
exactly. You're going to smack
them down and you're going
to be like, okay, come
on. I can still easily
happen. Someone will just be
like, Oh yeah, I put
it in a partial. Then
I imported the partial at
the bottom and it's just
like, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no. Even
the import file has an
order to it. Read it.
And this isn't just being
like uptight. Like some people
might be listening and going,
Oh, you know, they're just
rearranging deck chairs on the
Titanic. It's all going to
be chaos anyway. But a
really well architected SAS system
is a thing of beauty.
Oh yeah. It's, it's amazing.
Right. It's just, it's like
a great building. It's like
when you walk in and
you're like, everything is, is
right. You know, this it's
all in this place when
I was in school. I
mean, I always thought I
wanted to study architecture and
I never did. I ended
up dropping out of school,
taking a year off. And
then I was like, Oh,
this web thing is really
fun. I should move to
Portland, Oregon. When I took
a year off, that's where
I went. That's where I
got started. And so it's
my, I had this theory
in scores like, well, you
can take poetry, which is
a, like a system in
of itself and you can
design for it. So then
when you go somewhere, you
can elicit a certain type
of design. So I think
that's the beauty of a
well architected file is that
like, you've, you're showing your
ability to like think through
these requirements and not only
have you translated it into
like the final website, which
like for users to interact,
like we as developers, we
interact with our files and
we should take care of
them too. So It's a
garden that needs to be
tended. And if a weed
pops up at the bottom
of the file and got
pulled that week Yeah. Cause
too many weeds. And you're
like, I don't care about
this garden. Anyhow. You know,
you just want that away.
So at the beginning you
mentioned that you did a,
a three hour workshop, but
it could have been a
week long. You're actually, you're
actually at a conference organizer,
you have a conference. What
is your conference? SAS
so Tire conference about SAS,
which, which I think the
point of reason I'm saying
it like that with that
kind of gravitas is that
it's so powerful and it's
so significant. And the idea
of a large system that
is architected well, that is
then agile enough to respond,
to changes in the design
needs, books and conferences and
tools like this. So tell
me about your conference. How
long is it? What kinds
of people should go to,
to Saskatoon? Well, if you're
a thought SAS enthusiast definitely,
definitely come, but we don't
come to, I mean, we
bill it as a conference
for people that want to
make a better web and
not only for users, but
like for ourselves as developers.
So also caring about that
developer experience and SAS comp
this year is going to
be October 2nd through fourth in
New York city again, and this
year it's three days. So
we have a full single
track conference day to have
Atkins as our keynote, which
I'm super excited about. And
then we have tab Atkins
is the spec hacker over
at Google. So he, he
does a lot with the
CSS spec, which is really
neat. And when you think
about, I think the other
power of sass is how
it's influencing decisions that are
coming out and CSS. And,
but again, this sort of
idea of I'm like, well,
if Sasin converted Jaison then
who knows, maybe the browser
one day will just decide
to understand something else. It
does make one wonder that
we see things like coffee
script or TypeScript influencing the
future of JavaScript. Is there
a convergence coming where it's
going to be here are
the angle brackets and here
are the curly braces. And
the curly braces are both
CSS and JavaScript chat, you
know, CSS with inline JavaScript
or JavaScript within ICSs, who
knows we'll find out its
task conference. We will find
out what, what tab has
to say. And then our
second day is workshops. You
can pick between two, four
hour workshops. And our third
day, this year is our
community unconference day, which I'm
super, super excited about. And
last year was just like
last year was the first
time that everyone in this
community came together. And it
was, I mean, it was
powerful to see Chris and
Hampton and Natalie and people
who have been organizing for
years. And for the first
time they'd seen you, they
hadn't seen each other for
years. And here we all
were like, yeah. And here
we were like together coming
together for the first time,
seeing like how we really
love this thing. And we
want to hang out as
a community and we want
to make it better. And,
and a lot's happened since
then within the SAS community.
And it's just, I mean,
it's a, it's a wonderful
place. I'm so, so happy
to be there Speaking just
a little bit about kind
of quote unquote, the competition.
There are, there are other
preprocessing process, right? There was,
there was less kind of
for awhile that this fallen
out of favor. Is that
fair to say? I mean,
unless it's still there, unless
Twitter bootstrap hadn't started with
Las, I don't think it
would be as prominent. And
I actually worked with less.
I started with SAS, then
I worked with less and
then I went back to
SaaS and I think the
biggest difference around it is
like, where's the community around
less a and B there's
no way to contribute to
less. I think one of
the things that's, and you
can actually see this with
the influence of jQuery to
JavaScript. If you remember, before
jQuery came out, JavaScript was
just kind of, this was
like, Oh gosh, Java script,
right? Yep. And then Before,
yes. Oh gosh, Josh got
like a JavaScript. Yes. That's
exactly what Now it's like
JavaScript, you know, what's crazy.
It's like the hottest thing
ever. But what jQuery did
was that it created a
way for people to contribute
back. And if you look
at the initial blog posts,
like the first day, John's
like, Oh, I released it.
And second day he was
like, I've created this way
for people to submit plugins
and someone already submitted a
plugin and that took off.
And that's what SAS did.
SAS created this way for
people to share their work,
which is really new in
CSS. You can't share your
giant site dot CSS file.
And show me that you're
like, I'm like, what am
I going to learn from
this? You don't want to
see it exactly. Right. So
now we have ways to
create tools that we can
share and people can contribute.
And that's, and I think
that is why SAS has
really shot ahead of all
the other ones. It's also
just much more powerful, much
more powerful than us. So,
Very cool. So I'm going
to add all of the
links that we talked about
in the show notes. People
can go to SAS cough
this October, 2014, they can go
to the conference day. There
is the workshops. And then
the last day is like
an open space. As a
community day, IBM is running
a hackathon. There's a round,
a large panel discussion between
like Zerbe and thought bot.
And, but otherwise it's come
share what you want to
share or hack on whatever
you want to hack. Right.
Well, thanks so much for
chatting with me. Thank you
so much for having me.
This is great. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.